we are
live let me fix
this there we
go so we got some stuff to do today uh
we have not gotten great results out
of the last few carbs runs because I
think that we have something wrong with
it
so I'm GNA start by
fixing uh some of that stuff today
let me uh do I have anything cool to
post for the time
being not
really we'll wait until we fix
this okay so we're going to start here
with some bugs from
yesterday oddly enough so the pong run
actually it runs but it doesn't seem to
do the correct thing though this does
seem to be getting better over time this
could just be an artifact I don't know
um so we can do some analysis on this
but I think it's very likely that
something is broken here
because if we go to our sweeps so I I
started this one this morning real quick
just to see and like it'll run a few of
these and then it just they all start
crashing so let's see if I can find the
reason for this
um max ARG is an empty
sequence this thing doesn't save history
back far
enough buffer
size let me just edit this real quick
let's see if I can get a a Repro on this
error
uh
so yeah the easiest way to do this is
just going to be
to make these way
shorter so let's do like you
know two million
steps to 10 million steps not 10
billion and then we'll see what comes
out of
this if we can get carbs to be working
consistently today it's going to be just
so nice
because I mean what job do I have after
that right if it just automates
everything like that'll be great just be
able to like do simulation and like
Integrations and stuff and have all of
this stuff just be solved
instantly seems pretty
great I've had some people ask me about
like optuna and other hyper pram
algorithms Frameworks algorithms
whatever and really I don't think
there's been a good head-to-head
comparison I don't know how far down
that rabbit hole I want to go though I
think it doesn't make sense to go
particularly far down hyper pram tuning
without having the Sims right like you
need to have a whole bunch of good
environments speaking of which I get to
see a progress update on another cool
one by a colleague of mine on uh
Thursday okay so observed
value right here we get this is our
value here hey no thinking about imp
implementing some environment in scon my
scon
skills thinking of doing break yeah I
actually I've been asking like I think
I'm not sure if it was you but somebody
asked about this and I said to do
breakout um I haven't seen any updates
since then but yeah first person that
that submits a a PR of like breakout at
a million FPS it's going to be really
nice oh I don't know if you were here
for this but I made I made Atari like
twice as fast all of Atari twice as fast
uh like a day or two ago it now trains
between 30 and 40,000 steps per second
we can do way better than that though if
we're not like rendering to pixels
exactly um
yeah breakouts
good
oops Let's see we got the bug we're
looking for here
so what's wrong with this this is
637 yeah I saw that such an easy
fix yeah but this is the thing with the
reinforcement learning right this is
like all over the place
right is just this type of
stuff that nobody fixes people are just
like oh new framework new framework this
and that and it's just like hey you're
half of the processing power in the last
decade of reinforcement learning has
gone into a crappy uh open CV resize
implementation how's that
go this is kind of weird that this is
like
this is
there I hate windows so
much
defaults command is this is command
history is it this
like if I do
this bar doesn't get any
bigger do this
again so what I'm trying to figure out
here is like carbs is not working
consistently
um and it's it's just like crashing on
the M even though it's working kind of
on pong so I think that there's some
sort of
bug so let me see what I can get out of
this chill Dev day
today okay here's the first
one we got one of these
mostly recovered from uh the weekend I
don't know I like I got off a stream
went and had dinner and then I just like
crashed for 10 hours
straight hopefully back to mostly full
today these look good so far I don't
know why this wouldn't be able to uh to
work
the new Atari rappers aren't really
going to do very much for us until we
are able to hyper parameter tune though
that's the big thing we got to get hyper
parameter
runs okay
so this did like two runs and then
failed
how's that make
sense get Paro groups
conservative it's really bizarre right
H so the way that this should be working
we Define our carb sweep
right
and we update
args args of train gets updated with
this train suggest
AR of M gets updated with M
suggestion then you do update the WB
config
here you get the observe
value and up time
maybe the uptime stat is
wrong shouldn't be
wrong should be able to get a nice parto
front
up time 7 Seconds
H so no Paro front means that there are
no
Optimal Solutions to the problem which
wouldn't make sense because it's getting
a nonzero observed
value and a non-zero cost
Max is an empty
sequence are they not getting updated
correctly
somehow for
get the suggestion from here
is there like some weird thing where
you're not allowed to use dashes or
something that' be dumb right
is suggestion
remembered whether to store the
suggestion and then it returns you the
dictionary of par
parameters well this is not really
readable
right
observe gets new observation in Pam
what is it different about the
Moa and
pong that makes
it it runs for
pong so weird
though it would be this way
[Music]
H I mean does it even look wrong with
the with
pong
like where's this
run
carbs is it this
one yeah so
it should not be doing this right it has
better runs it shouldn't be giving me
bad runs at this
point right it should have been doing
stuff that's like around
here stuff that's actually giving it
value instead it's
like consistently giving worse runs not
worse runs but here it looks like it
was there like a direction equals like
negative one or
something better Direction sign equals 1
so that's maximized which is what we
want resample frequency zero
okay h
is a tricky
bug I'm not even entirely sure that the
pong one is bugged necessarily
right but I do
[Music]
know that the mobile one should actually
run what is it the uh observe is that
what it's called how do you record
the you record it by you do car observe
observation in
param
okay so you forget the
suggestion
input you add an
observation which is this one
logging and that's
it
um
observation in
Pam
utils is this just like a
struct yeah this is just destruct
input what's this Adder
dot Adder dos that's interesting I've
not seen this thing
before this is I guess an attempt to
make a struct in
Python doesn't have the performance
benefits
though
um jeez
I'm going to chill here and just focus
up until I solve
this was important
Dre
okay here's where I use the
dash there a slash here
instead for
not expecting this to do anything
different and I've seen this error
before
let me see how many experiments it takes
to fail I think it's two or three
there two
experiments get the third
experiment is it something to do with
the scaling
okay so here you get the empty so it
runs three
experiments and I think it usually tries
to fit a model to
this let me see if it's just something
as stupid as
whoops let me see if it's something as
stupid as
observed
value it's like what if I just multiply
it by a thousand
I just want to see if it's like
a okay my terminal's
broken let's see if that fixes
it it is technically possible that it's
trying to fit a model to just two small
values so if I just multiply by a th
that could be enough to fix
it that'd be very awkward
though e
no not just a scaling bug okay let me
fix the AC real quick
it's pretty weird that carbs does this
right this like Max of empty
sequence what would it be that causes it
to do
this is it just a bug in carbs but what
triggers it
there got to be something that triggers
this also why does it break my freaking
terminal I can't
type something with the WB errors I
assume
this is like a really good algorithm it
just
has this one like weird Quirk to
it and I didn't get this did I get this
at all
before I did get this
once I don't remember changing anything
though to make it work
how do I copy this
suggestion a rig suggestion.
copy is it possible this is not a deep
copy it shouldn't be right
well this is funny here do I not update
the uh the
N I don't see updating the en here
right ARS of
En that shouldn't change anything though
right I mean fundamentally it's
carbs.
observe might have to just go really
through the the logic of this thing it's
very difficult to read the carbs code
It's So You observe this is where you
get your input
here
and you forget the input
suggestion and then you add
observation if it's a
failure
or not okay if it's infinite or Nan none
of these apply then it's a
fail success
observations that append
okay and how does it suggest
here CU when we get this
error do we have the error message yeah
it's
in get observation
log 7
wait get observation
log it'sit in
logging do we care about
this get observation
log no because you need this don't you
this might be log probabilities or
something not
log okay
carbs carbs
utils do this is just a dictionary
um so I don't know why it says logs
because this is not logging
utility right here this observe is what
is giving you
the wait is
it observe a new data point yeah so this
is your new data point this is not
logs so
get
log did I comment this line out or did
they comment this line
out did I comment this line or did they
comment this
line let me
look initialize
no they have it commented I didn't mess
it
up so here's what we have
right we have observation count
log dick.
update observation
slash we've got output and cost
I'm trying to think why this would
happen What line
exactly it's in 748 get parito groups
is Paro group selection conservative
how does this Paro groups get updated
get parito curve
plot sample search
space the main
case sample search space
samples in
basic you generated valid
samples is there a logging that I'm
missing as well from this
maybe I could be missing logging right
where do I have the
dashboard let's see what this gives
us wait we have there were some logs up
there that we want to
miss under generated valid samples
requested 32 generated
26 many dimensions with
bounds sampling may be
slow scale less than three on Integer
linear
space okay so there are actually some
warnings here that could tell
us I think we just go from there I don't
think anything that we're going to get a
here is going to tell us
much
um Okay so
okay so right here this should tell us I
think this should give us the init
prints
right
okay scale less than three on Integer
linear space
running carbs with
config that's fine many dimensions with
bounds
17 sampling may be
slow sampling may be slow because I
provided
bounds what versus just providing a
center
point and then it under generated valid
samples so those two things are
potentially
bad those are our
Clues let's figure out
[Music]
the integer linear
space scale is less than three
none of these are
linear or none of these are integer
rather update EPO
maybe carb
Pam and then what is the thing that I
give it for a cardb Pam it's like a Pam
or a space I think
let's go more puffer how's the Moa
coming along uh the MOBA is coming along
just fine the thing that we're stuck on
right now is uh this carbs algorithm is
needed to do quality hyperparameter
sweeps we fixed the bug yesterday that
was preventing the MOBA from training at
all but this thing is not giving us
valid sweeps so I'm currently fixing
this thing with the hope that when I fix
this I'm just going to be able to run
the Mobis sweep and make a bunch of
progress there and then we'll be able to
figure out where to to go but this piece
here this is really the key to
everything and this needs to be
working sometimes you got to do a little
bit of the slow work to do the cool work
right who decided paper straws in
plastic cups were a good
idea it's freaking ridiculous
it's like coffee has a hourong timer on
it and if you don't finish your
coffee
okay
um so right we were looking for a scale
Pam real number
space okay so this does actually get a
scale if is integer return value
you have to give it a scale of three so
that it can sample from
Neighbors that's odd
right it's very odd that you have to
define the scale of these things like
that
H I should probably just add an argument
for this right
should be here is it space or par I
think it's space
right well I'll just scale equals one or
whatever and
[Music]
then where do you have update
epox this variable here
right we'll do scale scale equal
3 because it gave me a warning
before let's see if this fixes the
warning that does fix the warning so
evidently when you have an
integer it can't actually sample
properly unless you give it a scale of
three which is a little awkward
and then we get this under generated
valid sample that's in
444 is the mobile learning from pixels
or state local state local partially
observed
state which is for reference what open
ai5
did you know it is it has somewhat
occurred to me that you can kind of do
pixels um like if you look at some of
the older games there are older games
that you can render render it
like basically sees everything a human
yes exactly that's and and that is the
correct interpretation everything a
human would
um pixels are just really rough
because like the getting fast rendering
is really
hard I think I've
seen I messed with the old doom and I
was able to get like you know maybe 100K
or something out of it but when you want
to get like million plus steps per
second it's really hard to do that with
rendering and you're also you're
fighting against better gpus because
like you want your M to be faster than
it needs to be because gpus keep getting
faster more than
CPUs
right so this is why I'm trying to get
everything to be like a million steps
per second minimum by
default I think that's got to be the new
standard for RL like your needs to be a
million steps per second
okay so this is the thing that happened
here samples in
basic valid samples mask so I think we
just we put a break point
here and we see what
happens and actually it doesn't see
everything that a human would because
technically the human gets more
information um you know know we have
like a more limited Vision range and
stuff like that just to really squeeze
down on the amount of data that has to
go get computed and get sent through the
neural net so technically doesn't even
have as much
information we can crank up the level of
information quite easily but then stuff
gets slower you have to compute a lot
more
okay so this is a 17
dimensional
Vector num samples
so it wanted 32 we didn't get
32 origins in basic
you only get 22 samples is very
weird none of these are
valid okay so somehow I think that we
have
um we've got like invalid spaces
right so
I think we're making some progress I
have an idea as to what this might be
we'll see if I'm
right
okay so uh right here
I have these rewards set
right config ocean
mooba what did I set these spaces to
here reward XP is 006
1 0 06 0 05 and three these look to me
like valid
spaces uh
however maybe they're not scaled
correctly if this is like
uniform maybe they're not scaled
correctly
maybe I should just scale them by
like this is fine for skill of
one scale equals o0 point
five scale is equal
here to be
0.5 does this do
anything now I have 32 samples
okay so I generated 32 valid samples
right wait
what mask
I how the heck does that make sense wait
a
second oh I
see yeah this is fine let me see if this
solves it
[Music]
already if so this is very awkward and
I'm going to have to to ask the carb
guys it'd be very weird to me for them
not to catch this
right I think it would be very weird for
them to not catch this
okay so this is no warnings I believe
right this is just giving us that we
have a lot of variables which is
fine I disabled some of the
UI okay so here we get a new observe
value is our second
run we're going to let Ito a few of
these to see if it works
now if this works I'm probably going to
check the scaling a little bit I'm going
to write a quick email to the carbs guys
make my own guess and then we'll you
know we'll be able to do both of these
today that's very very weird though
so let me make sure that I got it and
then I'll explain the bug
nope apparently I didn't fix
it
dang I thought that would have done it
that seems like it should have fixed
it definitely seems like it should have
fixed it
how is it that we went from we had 32
valid candidate samples right so how did
we go from 32 to zero
crank oversampling
up so this suggestions in
basic real number input equals
x sample search space
might as well try to grab 32 points
since we get some parallelism for
free sample search base will crank up
oversampling if
needed if the if suggestions greater
than
zero remember wait what
suggestions of zero. real number
input if the suggestion is remembered
which probably be
true okay so this code does not make any
freaking sense the way that it's written
here because it's going to try this
eight
times but it grabs a block of 32 every
time and then
I guess if it tries to get 32 then maybe
it
like I don't know this is weird but the
key Point here is that it only actually
gets
one if is random
sampling Is Random
ah so I see here how this
works so the first few samples are
random right and it gets a random
suggestion this
works if re sample frequency is greater
than
zero
and resample
suggestion okay I don't think this is it
I think it's generate candidate
here generate
candidate basic space to par
space real number
input
so here I can
see that when it suggests something
right it's going to generate a
candidate it's going to
make it into a
parameter it's going to remember it
probably and then it's going to return
it as a
suggestion okay and then the key thing
is observe this is how you tell carbs
the result of the suggested hyper
parameters so like hey you gave me Hyper
parameters I ran an experiment let's see
how good they are so here what it does
is the first thing is it forgets the
suggestion it forgets the
suggestion and then it calls add
observation I think that this is
probably
where this is probably where it should
be adding this to the parito front so we
can sample from it so it makes it into a
it makes it into the basic space
OB it does sanity checks
and then it does self. suuccess
observations.
aent success observations.
aent okay
I'm going put a break point
here because I think that this list
should be open this should be an uh this
should be a not an empty list and this
should be a
valid this should be
valid something very weird is happening
there that's like not fitting the
model oh the other possibility is I have
so so many parameters that maybe there's
something weird with the model where you
need to have a certain number of samples
in a moment this will give us the model
fitting call back
oh it doesn't get there that's that's
also interesting data though right that
it doesn't get
there
um damn it where's the I hate this
terminal where is the freaking
I can never figure
out withth
height is this
it oh there it is okay I'm going to set
that as a default so I never have to do
that again as
well
okay so it actually fails before I
thought it
would
so it never gets to fit the model is the
key
point it's supposed to sample a few
points and then attempt to fit a model
that's not happening for some
reason the way carbs work is it gives
you a few random hyperparameter samples
and then it fits this probabilistic
model based off of these random samples
and then it uses these to correct fronts
of Paro optimal parameters uh for which
there are no sets of parameters that
both obtain better reward or better
whatever metric and do it in Faster wall
clock time or faster whatever cost you
assign
one of these days somebody's going to
train a neural network on like meta
problems to do hyper Prem optimization
for and that day is going to be great
but that day is not
today okay
so this happens in
233 inside of observe so 258 233 inside
of observe
I have this
generate where does generate candidates
happen what happens inside of suggest
but this is telling me
that this is telling me that this thing
errors in observe so I try to register
the I try to
register the thing that I just got and
this fails
I'm going to have to put a break point
here now
right and just try to follow this logic
I guess
i' imagine a hyper parameter search
algorithm or model already exists
difficulty would be in connecting it to
whatever you're
building
um I was kind of making a joke like it
would be funny if we could train a model
over like tons of like everywhere you
need to do hyper parameter search we
just like train a model over the optimal
hyper parameters or whatever um but yeah
this is carbs is one such algorithm it's
not trained in the same way over
multiple problems right it's just a
statistical method um as you can see
there is some difficulty in connecting
it
add key okay so these are our hyper
parameters log dick.
update okay so all we did is we just
added we just added all of this stuff
right
not a
failure observation SL output and
observation SL
cost okay
success
observations we have one
here we get best
observation in Max
okay best observation in
basic and we get a we get an actual
observation here right with an actual
cost and then we go to Pam
space and then we
update this
dict perfect this seems all
reasonable and then best
observation be best observation
in basic.
output and then dot cost and these look
like real
values okay now we get grouped
observations
patience sure
whatever and this is where this fails
right and get Paro groups
okay it says it's conservative
cool Rito
groups this is what we would expect we
have one observation right it has some
parameters it has a score right it has
the uh the obser value that's the score
how well it did we have the cost and if
you have one thing one thing is always
going to be Pito optimal cuz there's
nothing for it to be worse
then Paro count and then parito area
from groups that's
interesting this
zero yeah zero which is what you I don't
know what it's doing with Paro area but
sure
okay so this is length
zero we don't need to care about
that we are not using wand be for Paro
curves though actually we could consider
that that would be kind of
cool we're not going to log
there returns log
dick so we continue
again and this should get us to the
second okay there you go
not a
failure okay we're going to
overwrite here this
fine it should be two
yep and then we have
best observation in
basic okay so we have something
here log dick.
update with the Paro right
log
dict best observation SL
cost e
what happened
here okay we have grouped observations
right which has two of
them and this should be valid
right three to
groups which yeah makes sense that
they'll be potentially two of them right
let's see where's
uh this one
has
O2 isn't this one just
better it costs less than it does better
grouped obser wait how the hell is this
parito
optimal it
has 0 z020 0 oh there's yeah okay so
this is pero optimal this has a higher
output but a higher cost so this is a
valid Paro
group and now there's an area associated
with it fine
length of resampled
groups don't need this don't need
this
continue seeing if we can catch this bug
[Music]
not a failure
it should be three
yep best observation in
basic so this is the second trial this
is it's saying that the second trial
that we ran was the best which is
reasonable did look pretty good
output and. cost
right grouped
observations
okay you got your three
groups and then we get get Paro
groups and does this
fail ah this does
fail that's kind of funny
okay so now that's something that's
better than nothing for now that we have
this uh now I need to go to get purito
groups three
times get parito groups
get
parito
group so I think this is now going to be
the function that we got a profile
right and if this is empty that's where
the issues coming from
we getting close here getting close to
understanding why this does not
work and then we'll see whether this is
a user error if this is I mean this is
not a user error of the type that's
like if this is a user error there
should be a warning or there should be
you know a a better message on this this
is an uncaught error either
way a very nefarious
one so we'll see whether this is a bug
in the algorithm or just like a missing
warning but
um what happened here oh I forgot to
remove okay so we hit continue
here
um what
I don't know what's happening there so
I'm going to just kill this because I I
don't know what's
happening break point so we get rid of
this
no yeah we get rid
of
this huh oh yeah there's a second
one yeah we get rid of this we get rid
of this
and then we check that we have one in
utils yeah we do have one in okay
perfect so here we
go and if if this algorithm actually we
get this working perfectly like and be
in a good
spot okay interesting that it doesn't
seem to a to call get Paro
groups the first time around at the very
least e
it should call it now
maybe get Paro
groups why did this not wait why did
this not trigger their break
point
233 748
right which files
carbs
carbs 6:30 and utils right oh it's
because I get conservative okay I
see
get yeah so it has to be here as the
break point
so there are two versions of the
function there's a conservative function
and I don't
know this the normal one
okay prefers groups with multiple
samples a single sample can only be
better if it is better than the max of
the previous
group however a multiple sample group is
better
if the mean is
higher okay so you
have group they have some comments here
so group a output is zero cost is one
output is one cost is one mean
0.5 outp point is six cost is two point
is 5.5 7.5 mean
6.65 with the normal Paro
algorithm a b c and d would all be in
the PTO
front with this algorithm groups a c and
d will be in the pedo
front B will not be included because
it's not greater than the
max of group
a
yeah reduce thrash in which group are
used as search
centers okay this is a weird thing but I
I'm going to assume they did something
reasonable
here
um numpy
quantile Min Pito
cost okay that gives us
something observations below Min
threshold which gives you one
observation that's not good
apparently resampled below men threshold
interesting only use
resampled observations if there are
any
oops thank you
shortcuts
resampled
observations low Min Rush
zero so we don't we ignore
that group output pause
better group output pause
better this is a
Lambda and then this is another
Lambda okay and then this is maybe where
it errors so P
observations below Min
threshold first Pito
group and then remaining observations
there are no remaining
observations Paro groups is going to be
the first parito
group group output pause
better this is
empty this does not
break that's
weird do we have Schrodinger's bug
here we only get to see if we look at it
got some groups now
okay so this is at
here we still have observations that are
below the men
threshold I'm going to say it doesn't an
error
here and that this errors on either the
third or the fourth time around because
that's the number of samples
I was trying to run the snake end with
render but when I set render mode to
human I don't see
anything it doesn't crash but I don't
see any
rendering did you run with D- mode eval
or did you just run the demo. py
there are no observations below the
minimum threshold
this is
false
because there aren't any
below the M
threshold
observations and there aren't
any okay
uh I see
I
mean let me real quick for this guy let
me see if
uh where's my
local
human let me's see if this make end
works well this shouldn't be committed
anyways I don't think I committed this
this was just for the
Moa let me see if it renders yeah it
renders is it spawning off your screen
if you have multiple displays it can
spawn off of your screen
rendering is yeah okay that's why you
got to run uh rendering for eval only we
don't do rendering during train because
it's like wul
inefficient because you're basically
you're like bottlenecking your main core
process we technically could because
there's a driver environment but it's
like people do it because it's cool and
then they like throw away half of their
train time and then they complain about
perf
right so I don't have that as by
default I hate paper
straws hope the environment is useful
for you it's uh should be pretty quick
to
train it's a nice test down
so we want to test
oops so we found the uh the spot where
this issue
occurs so
did I find a
bug now I get snake
object oh okay I guess I did commit that
file by mistake my
bad let me fix that for you real quick
bud yeah
uh like
this do a th frames or
[Music]
whatever
there it's good
there see if that fixes it for
you this is the dev Branch so like I was
messing around with eval stuff for the
Moa
right the hope is that we get all this
merged into like a big stable simulation
update relatively soon but for now it's
you know it's relatively easy to to get
stuff working and to play around with it
and I'm not hard to get a hold of when
stuff does
break I think I might have found a
genuine
bug let me
see Min Paro
cost numai quantile
Min Paro cost
fraction takes minimum cost for prito
set to be this percentile of cost data
takes minimum cost for Pito set to be
this percentile of cost
data and then you
say how many observations are
below the minimum cost is that
right min Pito cost
fraction am I reading this
correctly working now
perfect not that painful right and
that's on the dev
Branch buffer only gets better and more
stable I basically only been doing this
project now full-time for what two three
months
it's going to get way
better we've already got some crazy
stuff though that Snak Sim is a really
good demo of the uh of the tech and just
how fast stuff can be
okay I hit continue once and then once
more I think
right cuz it fails on the third
one want to understand what they're
doing with this quantile and why it's
failing
you can also by the way you can edit the
uh that clean puff RL file you can like
edit the uh the eval like the roll out
length and stuff in there if you want to
save different length gifts or whatnot
different length and speed gifts just
don't make it run too long cuz like it
stores all those frames so don't o
yourself for
okay so we have a Min parito
cost of
6.4 and I see here there's one that has
5.9 so this observations below M
threshold should not be empty right
yeah so this still works and then we go
next duration and it breaks we have to
figure out
why e
how did they get a cost of
5.87
8.75
5.8
5.9 oh wait 85 yeah so there should be
one here right
obervations
below
threshold
none observation group cost
what does observation group
cost um
some so this is a
mean
so what the heck
x.
cost oh okay I think I
see so what this is doing
here this
quantile is looking
at the cost
individually of each OB of each
observation and then we're filtering it
to groups that have a mean below
that and
because the mean does not necessarily
need to be below this cost this can be
empty and then we're just screwed
is conservative self. config
where's self doc
config you make a carbs
object self. config equals
let's see if this does it for
I'm going to start writing them up in
issue for
oh jeez does this still not work
well if this still doesn't work then I
might then I must be wrong
right let me
see 562
they have the same logic in here
they have the exact same logic in
here so I guess I don't understand what
a Pito group is compared to
um a Pito observation I understand what
the Pito points are I don't understand
what a Pito group is
group observations self. successful
observations
group observations okay this is in utils
gets observation
groups by matching input params
hm
okay so these are supposed to be for
like equivalent trials or
whatever why did my screen just go
black that's
weird
for for
I think that this is looking for
duplicate trials isn't
it
for e
okay so it can't break here because
there's only one observation so it can't
group them together
right for
got
two and a group of two okay so this is
still
fine and then I guess what's going to
happen is it's going to group two of
them together on the third run right
three two there's your
issue successful observations
so I see what happened for some reason
it relaunched the same bloody trial you
see the second and the third one of
these are the same
that's actually very funny so because
this thing is I assume this has been
made
deterministic then we are getting this
every
time let me see how it samples we're
going to actually have this fixed today
that's kind of cool
um bad news is it's not going to explain
why the pong example isn't really
working but um uh I have some ideas
there as well to be honest I got some
ideas there I think we're probably just
have bad metrics we'll we'll debug that
as well we'll make today mostly about
like this automatic hyperparameter
tuning thing um and we'll try to really
set ourselves up for some good
runs in the next few
days this is this is all we need like we
just need this to work and we're
good okay get
random e
num random
samples for
let's see if this solves it I'll be very
surprised if this does not solve
it you have to give it a few trials to
see so what I think is happening is
that well I know what's happening is
that somehow when you specify
okay the way this algorithm is supposed
to work is that at first it will do a
few random samples to like initialize
the sweep and then it will find Optimal
points searching out from these
different random samples uh the problem
is that it was giving me the same random
sample twice
and they like group together things that
they think are the
same but because things don't take
exactly the same amount amount of wall
clock time to
run it was erroring out there because it
was trying to like it was basically
filtering out all the valid
candidates welcome
Samurai I think we've just fixed carbs I
think if so I'm going to be able to
submit them a nice bug report on
this and we'll actually be able to run
our sweeps on the Moa which will be very
nice it looks like it's not fair
ing looks good to me
okay we fixed it that was what two hours
of
debugging but we fixed it and now we get
to do all sorts of fun stuff with
it
um I think we're going to just start by
running a sweep right
good thing I didn't try to finish this
last night I would have not been able to
have gotten this this was
hard did you ever start consider
starting a crash course um I don't
really have interest in teaching for
teaching sake on its
own I'm like my main thing I'm trying to
push the frontier of RL
forwards so a lot of the stuff that I
end up working on here ends up being
instructive but you know the primary
goal is really to push the field
forward it just so happens that one of
the ways that I do that ends up being uh
making really simple tools that also
make it easier to get into
RL but that's a side like that's a
byproduct not the primary goal
oh this is hold on I forgot I disabled
some important
logging okay
uh this is
mode
sweep
carbs V
multiprocess we'll see how this
goes okay
cool we'll let that be for a bit and
let's submit them an issue
least the number of Dimensions you
have wait if you're running
without any parallel
suggestions for
make sure I get the the names right
minimum
but
quantile ration uses the
men across
all uh
observations not
across no groups which the
mean for
okay I gave him a little bug
report maybe that'll uh push him in the
right
direction that was a tough one
um yeah it was very
weird was very
weird we got it though so let's look at
some
I'm going to take a quick meet to clear
my head that was a 2hour debug session
what time is it only 121 okay I'm going
to take just a quick minute to go clear
my head um running the grid environment
when I rendered it it wasn't what it
wasn't sure what it's supposed to
be which task are you running in the
grid environment there are several
different tasks it's like a forging task
there's a group up task right
either way though give me a minute I'm
going to be back I'm just got to go
clear my head real quick uh two hours of
debugging forging there's a bunch of
food and the agent should be uh eating
all of the food
efficiently
um yeah I'm going to be right back and
then we're going to take a look at the
pong runs and we're going to do some
improvements to this hyper pram sweep be
right
back
e
e e
okay
rather met what the grid end is when I
hear grid I think of grid world but it
looks more like a lot of Agents trying
to do some task EG for it
so I don't know maybe we come up with a
better name for it um technically the
internal representation is a grid but
there are discret and continuous
versions of all the tasks um yeah it's
like a particle end or whatever sure
welcome okay so we have this carbs
thingy this says we have two full runs
so we'll see how this does from here
um it's under
environment normalized uh normalized
reward or
whatever what I wanted to do is I wanted
to look at some of the pong
runs
right wanted to see if we can tell
what's going on with them
what's the
duration two
hours one
day should be like a day ago
right where's the pong
sweep there should be one in
here oh I have the columns
wrong
here so here's this pong sweep that we
still have
running
um that doesn't seem to be catching on
correctly what I wanted to do was I
wanted to look at the
individual I wanted to look at this is
what is this environment slash
I think this is episode
return so if I look at environment
episode return here
right 100 of
them these are very
noisy so what I was thinking is
like if it's just using the last point
of the return as its metric then that's
not going to be a reliable metric from
which it can do the sweep
right and I think I tried to hack around
that but uh probably did not do so very
successfully
so really what we want is some sort of
smoothing in the sweet metric
itself I also don't want to just take
the maximum because that's also going to
be noisy right
yeah I mean because otherwise it
basically it should have gotten these
early runs and it should have just it
should have just kept going from
there let me think how do how do we do
this cuz we need this for the mobo we
need this for pong we need this for
everything
right metric needs to be
consistent what's your opinion on stable
baselines
3 I mean people seem to like it I
personally
don't
um
it's it has like very very poor
performance compared to some other
things and uh it's also it's very black
boxy it's very difficult to like go in
and edit
stuff I generally recommend people uh
clean RL over stable
baselines puffer is built off of um the
puffer demo is built off of clean RL
just souped up with some you know
performance
improvements I have in the paper
actually
we have a we have a
comparison of their Vector
backends yeah right
here and uh the stable Baseline 31 with
a few exceptions is generally lowest
perf
well kind of comparable to the B basic
gymnasium one but that's not saying very
much it's also harder to swap in the
puffer ve with the stable baselines it's
very easy to swap in RVE with a clean RL
which is very nice and then you just get
pre
perf so I have to figure out how the how
we're going to get stable return metrics
right that's going to be the thing right
now how do I get stable return
metrics let me think about that
I mean the easiest thing would to just
be like keep a buffer over the last
hundred of them or something
right last 100 episode returns or
something but it's kind of awkward
because like that buffer length is
important
I mean I could do like the
last 10% of
training or something like that
maybe if I just take all the metrics
from the last 10% of training was that
do it
probably
does e
h
I guess it's worth doing
right like just having to tell clean
puff
RL having to tell up the metric that you
care about
I could also just do it after the
fact so you train your
model and then you get like a nice Point
estimate at the
end that could be
good I think I just got to start
implementing
something do we have anything in the
meantime from uh this mooba
it's running
stuff hasn't crashed or screwed up
somehow this is my yeah this is my
local the way I'm envisioning this we do
yeah the way I'm envisioning
this instead of doing range
10 train batch size
steps evaluated is going to be less
than
args
train and we can
do rack
.1
steps to eval
equal so now we just ensure that we do
10% 10% extra to get a good eval right
and that should give us
um a strong
evaluation yeah because we can't rely on
having a large batch size or something
like that
right because batch size is going to be
highly dependent on the environment
large bat size could mean more stale
data for simpler
Ms and eval should be relatively quick
you would
think so we get the up
time
this yeah that's
fine I kind of like that
I think we're fine on the Moa though I
think that's going to be more for other
stuff
because yeah we've got like a default
batch size of a million or whatever
there's always going to be 5 million
steps worth of data for
this we have a few things we can do to
improve the quality a little bit though
we can do that in a second I want to see
so with Atari right
like batch size is only
16k and the episodes can be pretty
long so if I had
160k right worth of eval steps I could
see why this sweep wouldn't be very
good but if I do
10% we have at least 500k steps worth of
eval data
500,000 steps worth of eval data what's
the episode length per
pong should tell
us it's a thousand so yeah like 5,000
that should give us some good some very
good
estimates so I kind of want to rerun
this pong sweep because this is this is
very silly the way that this looks at
the
moment let's Commit This
then let's go to
here uh
what not the right one is it
uh
fix that
R fix sampling
then let's go back to local because
before we run that I want to make some
changes I think that we need to do
something better for the scale of these
parameters you know the scale of these
parameters is messed up
hold on do I have a report of outages
here for
search radius in basic. item
I guess I should just go through
manually
uh get
pull so we have all these parameters and
they probably need scales on them
right
maybe let me see what happened before
for
so I didn't update these correctly so
these I can't look at but then batch
size
here got rounded to powers of two
then update EPO didn't get hit but maybe
it just wasn't
good does this scale thing
matter I mean most of these are logic
spaced already I guess
well we'll see with the actual frame
skip because that wasn't updating
correctly with pong before let's just go
run this on box one and see if the pong
sweep looks any better
what box am I on
here perfect this
one okay
T prams are reasonable
right and we should be able to see n
prams
now arus of n or
whatever
yeah right here
we rerun this
now
cool and we'll see what they tell me
with with the initial parameters as
well it's funny that they don't use like
the initial starting point as the seed
that would probably be
better we'll see though we've got two
sweeps running now and we've got a
message in with
carbs so uh I think that we're kind of
in a good spot um we have a couple
things to potentially do
here we've got a couple things to
potentially do check anything
here oh
okay let's clean up some of the logging
for the uh the
Moa real quick because that'll be a good
thing to do and I think from there we're
kind of in a good spot with all this and
I will probably take a quick break and
then think of something to do for the
rest of the afternoon on the project cuz
everything's more or less in a decent
spot and we just need to start getting
uh sweeps on the board need to fine-tune
all of this stuff and need to really
start automating this whole process
right so in the logging here we
have we have Norm
reward which is a mean but it's only
taken during the report
interval I would like to be able to
accumulate these stats over time
that is kind of difficult to do because
the numpy operations are not
fast let me think how I want to do this
well we can get rid of some metrics that
we no longer need the X and y's are no
longer
useful I think we don't need Min and Max
I think we just need mean here let's not
clutter
it then we have the reward
components and then Norm to
reward Towers taken is a good metric but
we need to get it from a decent starting
sample point
really I think carb should be able to do
that start from the like the initial
point that you
specify cuz otherwise you're kind of
redoing the sweep every time
yeah we'll look at that maybe after I'll
think about that
um well as for
this is there a way to do this type of
index
I know that works
well I can just do
like
shape like this
yeah that does
it self.
entities num M's
let me see if I can get this to
uh to give me the data nice and
stable
shape so that's 200 m
that's right isn't
it so it's self. entities
this is going to
be
levels entities is.
level and then we'll do radiant levels
is equal to self entities
uh of or no
levels where is
it
of
one
five okay this
works there
that at least gets a stable level
estimates
as for the rest of
these depends whether I want to pay the
um the cost right
I could make it substantially better
okay I got to go do something for a few
I'll be back in I don't know 5 10
minutes something like that uh I'm going
to think about a few things cuz this is
going to be pretty quick to finish up
and then we're going to need to figure
out where to take all this stuff next
and I don't want to just be bottlenecked
on waiting for
sweeps so we'll think about that maybe
we'll do something cool I don't
know
e
e e
okay we are uh we are set for a bit
here looks like we've got some
messages trying to get a better
understanding of the snake amp when I
set numb snakes to one and print the
action shape it has two
elements yeah I believe there's an X and
Y component that are separate
action always have yeah I think it has
an X and A Y component if I uh if I
recall correctly right could be wrong
let me
see oh no that's weird uh it is discreet
why does it have shape
two shape of the action is
two set num M okay yeah that makes sense
cool glad you found
that glad this snake and works let's
look at these sweep see if there's
anything cool and then if not we'll find
something else to do because like I
think a lot of the work for the next
week on this is just going to be I'm
going to have to be you know on point
running sweeps Around the Clock
um when I set to num m is one it crash
yeah there's a weird bug in pu in uh
clean puff RL just set it above one for
now I got I've meant to be I've meant to
fix that but I keep forgetting where the
heck it is going go looking for it
it's just like a shape
thing well this is weird right
okay this pong one works
better what's up with the MOBA sweep
H seems to be pretty flat
right and then
spikes hard to
tell with these
shouldn't there be like a reward
distance reward
Tower reward distance here
very
spiky very very
spiky which is
odd this one looks good
hm so it could just be the metric
here okay I guess I'm going to just have
to spend a bit of time thinking out loud
here because there are like a lot of
ways that we could go at the moment and
a lot of it depends
on on a few things hey hesitant
welcome we just got uh the carb Suite
mostly working
correctly it
appears um doesn't crash anymore at the
least I I'm actually about to just talk
through some of the things I'm thinking
about here
so I now have it so that the Moa is in a
relatively stable
spot if I faed like it I could have some
fun and I could just like pretty up the
graphics today and like try to make the
uh the game more playable that would be
a decent use of time
um the main thing that's holding back
this and all the other projects I have
is just getting good sweeps running
which is mostly just like run a bunch of
sweeps get the data and then make tweaks
and whatever there might be a few things
that need to actually change like I
might need to change the metric being
optimized over here or there I might
need to change a few things but I think
for the most part it's just run a bunch
of
sweeps
um I mean we'll see from the current set
so I don't want to just be sitting
around waiting there and just like you
know checking those
constantly um that's just going to take
some time to
run um let me think so for cleaning up
these projects I could make the rest of
the MOBA nice and playable I could get
it ready to hook in the other actions I
could do that
um there's a few other things I could
fix up around puffer I could do some
precursor work for the uh the 1.1
simulation update release though most of
that is we need to have good benchmarks
on
stuff uh
yeah I think of all the things that we
could do today probably the most fun
thing would to do would just be
to clean up the client a
bit and uh you know make that something
that's actually relatively
reasonable get a get it so that we can
actually tell what's going on and
such and also get it so that we can play
it more
reasonably
yeah that's probably
fine I could also potentially come up
with ways of changing up the attack
system a little
bit for the uh for the AI
have some ideas
there yeah overall I think we invest a
little bit in the visualization
today and then we attempt to just like
automate the whole rest of the
experiments via this um and then
probably I won't be just spending every
day on the MOBA now because it's going
to just be waiting for
runs what do you want to do with the
attack system so I was thinking it's
really obnoxious to have to Target
agents
individually like I can do it it's just
like it requires an obnoxious neuronet
architecture so I was going to do is I
was just going to make the attack button
like nearest uh agent nearest Tower
nearest NPC nearest creep something like
that so it can choose to attack and uh
if it chooses to attack it will just
Target like the nearest Target of a
specific
type and figure that would be easier
something like
that because otherwise
like you need like a pointer Network in
the uh in
the in the architecture which I could do
but it's just kind of slow and
clunky
right there's also a little bit of per
optimization that I still need to do on
this it's not quite like a million
flat and definitely would like it to be
like a million flat
SPS get the training running like a
million proper that'd be so
nice let's do some stuff on the uh the
mobile graphics for now that'll be fun
that'll be relatively
easy window's trying to tell me
something by minimizing
everything let's do
that I'm going to have to think about
what we do next for puffer because I've
actually solved a lot of the stuff that
I wanted to solve already which is kind
of crazy to say but
um I guess we I guess it's just like
this environment and like the couple
other things I'm working on need to be
polished
up it does seem like we need a few more
environments in the middle level of
complexity like things that are harder
than snake but maybe easier than
this who was it that was going to do
this do breakout
before let me
see oh no that was Noah okay that'd be
cool to have
we'll start with this for now I can't
just be starting more and more projects
right whenever I get bored I got to like
finish this
stuff attack behavior in
existing the attack behavior is an
existing m is as well the attack move
hotkey auto Target targets nearest yeah
well it's a little different because
that's
like oh yeah is does that Target the
nearest thing to your cursor though or
the nearest thing to your character cuz
in this case it will be the nearest
thing to your
character I mean regardless it's not
that big of a simplification like I
think that's a fine thing to do
let's work on the client a little
bit
um we have WD for
movement depends different indoda and
league league can even exclude non-ch
targets yeah so I mean I would just add
like that that type of a
thing
right now the question is going to be
how do I want to make the human
movement I should make it click with the
mouse right
I'm just trying to think how I do that
because it's a little different for the
agents
actually the mouse drag like the mouse
drag thing was kind of
cool it actually felt really
good let me at least reenable that for
now and we'll see if we may want to make
it like click
Mouse X Mouse
y for carbs WB integration how did you
get the actual agent parameters to
reject to reflect the carb
suggestion still shows Bas
params on one
B on my Branch it
does it should not show the base params
it'll show the ranges but there's a
trick so right here I delete their
lock and then I have this allow Val
change pram
here and then the other thing is you
have to update the whole config like
this at once you have to update like
this and then it should
work if it's not working in the dev
Branch let me know because it should be
where's the
action etn comma
skill I
see Le even got to work good luck thanks
see you around
so I just have to do this from the
um I'm going to do this instead of key
control
huh I I've been tired the last couple of
days I mean makes sense
camera
Target I see so I can put this up at the
top so like clip this
camera Target
m
okay and we'll test this like so I'm
just trying to map this to the existing
Action System that's what's happening
right now
um let's
do key a
equals
right and now we just get to
map yeah key
a e
okay Keys work the same as
before and
now how about this
think this should be
zero I feel better
I'll give us Mouse control
back there we go we've got like eight
directional Mouse control it's not the
nice smooth continuous one we had before
don't worry that'll go back in soon
enough but uh
yeah this feels substantially worse to
control that's so funny than uh The
Continuous
one I think we should probably just make
all the actions continuous and like map
to it or
something it's a little sketchy I got to
be careful not to to mess that
up may as well start on that though jeez
I going to wake myself up I don't know
a lot of Dev
lately okay
the actions continuous actions discreet
right it's somewhat annoying because I
know that I'm just going to end up
changing this anyways
I mean why don't I just do it for now
right
yeah not that hard right
let's just do this
actions continuous actions
discreet
uh don't really like the way that this
works yeah I don't really like the way
that this works at the moment
we shouldn't really need to have these
buffers
right oh I see why I did
this because of the
cast
H does that
matter it really doesn't
right for
and we'll do it this way
oh this is why cuz it'll copy
right okay that's moderately
annoying
yeah I just remember why I did this
now
uh okay
wait no this makes no sense
right
yeah I just didn't account for this
whatsoever
this has to be actions
continuous should be what
float this is discret
then I don't need this up
top I don't need the actions continuous
and discret I need it
here action discre of P there you
go we'll fix whatever is wrong with this
now
oh this still somehow Works
Cool okay I guess I didn't break it
do I add the rest of the buttons into
the action space
yet or do I
wait it's kind of tricky because it's
going to mess with the
models which like I hate being stuck on
sweeps
but the sweep is not even working well
is it
why is it like this that it
doesn't like it got this thing
here maybe hold
on I think it's too worried about the
Paro front
so it thinks that it
has it thinks that it has four good runs
I guess
yeah so it's probably like exploring
from like these things
[Music]
this one is actually good okay wait
we've got a run that looks like it's
good
now this run
here okay so it's actually it is working
we have to tune some stuff I'm sure but
this is working cool we can just keep
doing this for
now let's focus more on the
um Less on the buttons and more on the
viz
lots that we can improve right
trying to think how much I want to spend
time like trying to swap better graphics
in versus other stuff
as much as I hate to Branch
here it could just make a branch that
has the full action space ready to go
and that would make it easier
right to have the full
game it's probably going to be a quick
merge if I do
that I think that would probably be a
good idea cuz otherwise I'm just going
to be sitting here stuck waiting for
runs
all right let's do
this 3
three Target is going to be
thing nearest
[Music]
hero will
be make this three and then the buttons
are 222 okay this is
good multi
discreet actions equals for
okay so now I can just make
ax I can just make ax be what I want it
to be make it continuous that's way
better and get rid of all this
crap is very very
nice
and for
no longer need best
Target this is done for
you a y a
x
Target
Heroes
UWE or
perfect okay now we have the full action
to pass back
make this two
dimensional and
actually this is no longer an INT
right yeah no longer
well that's kind of
tricky that is kind of
tricky discreet and
continuous
[Music]
well no I think I know how I can do this
right
what I'm going to do
is so we'll do v y
equals
zero and this will
be uh what
float minus 3
uh divide by
three if it's
seven 0 1 2 3 4 5 six
right yeah minus 3 divide by 3 this is
good then the attack will
be uh attack was
it attack
Target be
this uh use Q is just going to
be
this w
fine get rid of all this junk
and then we'll do uh
this is going to require a little bit of
thought but um
okay if the attack Target is one then we
scan for
everything we'll scan only big
things exclude hostile
nope
true true that's pretty
good and I can put this back down
here near scan Target player
you do use Q use W use
E I was going to break selfcast and [__]
but that's fine for
now is this
it it's kind of it right
so let's just make this work let's debug
all of this um I'm sure that we have to
change the model at least a little bit
right oh that's going to be obnoxious
actually
then we do action
equal
star
7 jeez that's so obnoxious is there a
way to like split into
split sizes or
sections if it's an integer will be
split if it's a list then it'll be
split oh perfect you can give it a
list function exists just for
me torch. split
action D is equal to
one
there so now this actually gives you a
pretty nice rich action space
builds I'm sure the seg fa somehow
though no key shift
key left
shift please
help that's so
funny Let's Help
split input size okay so I forgot to I
forgot to do one
thing oh actually we're going to kind of
be able to make this automatic aren't
we let's
see yeah because we have access to n
right so
action
dim equal m. single action space.
shape
right or
enve maybe
here self
Dot and then this is going to be sum
of action
dim and this is self. action
dim now we won't have to update it
manually every time if I got that
right so it has
seven move the discretized version has
seven different move directions it can
go stationary it can go slow medium fast
and up and down left and
right not numpy ND array
okay
so
qwe these seem to do stuff I can't
move
interesting let's see what it's uh let's
see what it's doing does seem that it
does
something
uh I think I just have this scaled
wrong so we're going to
do over 100
right I'm going to clip this from
-3 to
positive3
uh + three + three
int so this gives you the
discretized this gives you the
discretized action so this takes -3 -2
negative 1 0 1 2 3 and it shifts it over
to the range 0 through
7 which is convenient for uh combining
this with the way that the agents will
expect it
okay so something is backwards
here okay what's wrong with
this a y ax
[Music]
looks good to me to be
rebuilt possibly yes
okay so this actually is working but the
X Dimension is
not the Y Dimension is working but it's
linked to the X dimension for some
reason so why is that
v y v
x y andv
x jeez
H did I mess it up in the mobile file
doesn't I don't see anywhere where this
is
backwards and
then yeah a y and ax get set here
H guess I can print the player actions
going into the net uh going into the
environment
right that' be a thing I should
do self actions
zero and actually just print it right
here
okay
well that's amusing
right how did this happen
oh
dope and I forgot this break point
get rid of
this we'll leave the
print this feels decently good not as
good as before though
if it's just slow or
what can I cue
something I forget if this is the hook
or what
I can see that the keys the key presses
work
though and then the
shift yeah these all work so all my key
buttons work at
least I should try to make the movement
feel good that's very important
right invalid pit is also quite
obnoxious um
wait what
if tile is
empty or it's a wall
okay let's divide by
50 let's see how that feels
s i feels decently
better I would
say relatively smooth
what algo are you
implementing I kind of have all the
algorithms implemented at the moment and
I'm just cleaning up the uh the actual
UI and like feel of the the game so I
can better test it um this is training
right
now I have this
automated where is
it okay so this is training right now
with
po uh it looks
like we have a good run
there little concerned that this is
still
going I should double check this one
hold
on this
one oh
whoops so I had a sweep going I
apparently didn't run it for long
enough I forgot that by debug option was
bad it do it does look like I found a
decent one though in the process uh so
I've got po running with a hyper pram
sweep mind giving me a little summary so
what you're looking at here is not
neural MMO uh neural MMO is it's an MMO
it's a massively multi-agent online game
like Runescape or World of Warcraft just
very very stripped down and developed
from the ground up for use with
artificial intelligence so that we can
train agents on and in neural MMO inside
of this virtual world and hopefully
discover better ways of training agents
and discover what we can learn in the
process this is not neural MMO this is a
new project uh I just started this one a
couple weeks ago this is a MOA so this
is like stri down League of Legends or
DotA except that it runs at a million
frames per second and it's really really
efficient for AI so we're training
reinforcement learning from scratch on
this
MOA not the end of neural MMO though
either I just said that uh neural MMO
hit 500 Stars yesterday and there will
be some more stuff coming to neural MMO
relatively
soon but I'd say that this is a project
that's like
not similar I could I can't rightly say
similar scope and complexity to neural
MMO but there's a lot in
it is the point to carry this over to
actual mobas not really it's more to
give so like this was already done right
open ai5
exists this is like the coolest thing
ever they beat uh oh this is not even
the full result where is it they beat
the world champion at DOTA too and I
don't know where's the blog post for
this yeah here it
is this was cool I am I in this photo I
think I'm in this photo somewhere I
don't see where I think I'm like over
here somewhere um but anyways yeah this
is awesome but the thing is you need
like a th000 gpus in order to do this
and 100,000 CPU course so we're making
miniature DOTA and uh we're making it
work on one GPU in like two or three CPU
course whatever you have have and uh
it's not all that far behind this in
terms of the amount of data that's going
through it it's a
lot quite a lot of
stuff 45,000 years of DOTA is
nuts but yeah that's what we're
doing and it's going pretty well
let me fix those hyper pram
sweeps wish they would do an update
unconstrained yeah you know I really
wish they they actually they talked
about internally like trying to do it
with wh less compute and language models
happen so apparently that means nothing
else gets
done um which was a real shame because
it was an awesome project but hey we'll
have this now and we'll be able to do
this ourselves
right for
even in One V one Shadow started to
learn how to compete against it would
love to
see how the how The Meta how The Meta
the agents end up
yeah DOTA is really
awesome I think that when we start
getting some cool results on this people
will start to take notice as well I mean
that's basically all that has to happen
if people pick this up and like it then
I keep deving it that's it's that
simple I'm going to make it a
self-contained useful research and how
far beyond that I push it depends on uh
how much people care about it
okay what was the uh the setting that
was doing well
here was it
doing oh it wasn't doing any better just
has higher yeah that's fine
does this Norm reward metric make sense
let me
see honestly I really don't like this
metric it's kind of bad
yeah this metric's kind of
bad do we do Towers
taken I say we do Towers
taken and see if it works
let me make some mods to this I mean we
knew we were GNA I knew I was going to
have to do this
right
um that's
fine lots to learn from too like with
deep mind's Alpa star debunk certain
myths that Pros had about the strategy
bear of ramps being
unjustified that's really
funny yeah I the AI is cracked
we just have to make it work
consistently right
right
what we think about this
wait this is the wrong one isn't it ah
wrong
one okay this is the
Moa and then where's the other one for
I'll do this one will be
pong okay let's see what this figures
out and
then I'm just going to put this on my
other
screen I can watch it
okay now we go back to fixing
this good thing that I checked it
because
otherwise yeah um this Norm reward I
think that carbs is good and this metric
is just bad so what I did is I made a
metric that's the total number of towers
taken I figure that the more Towers get
taken in the course of training probably
the better it
is we obviously we need ELO or something
longer term but this will do for
now
um what was I doing here before
you can't selfcast I think
right okay let's fix let's fix some
abilities and stuff I guess because this
looks good otherwise right
yeah we don't need this anymore we've
actually made it a lot simpler and
better that's way easier isn't
it a really simple
renderer cut so our class
we have a hook we have an AOE heal and
we have a stun
right do these actually
work exclude friendly is
true so I need to be able to try out a
hook I think on these
guys H that works I just hooked it to me
it's like a channeled
hook I got too close to the other
one that's cool
though that actually
works and it's resetting me
periodically which probably will be able
to turn that off
soon it's my guess
let
see invalid PID grid five okay that's a
bug that we've been looking for for a
while grid five is a neutral
did it not get removed from the board or
something oh probably when you respawn
it's not doing it right
yeah probably the respawn functions are
screwed
up
okay that's a debug tool that I should
make real quick
right I should make a debug tool that
just shows where
um uh where the grid is not
zero that's probably totally messing
with the learning
right yeah
whoops
invalid damn it I didn't catch it in
time I saw invalid key total train
steps why can I not
scroll what's the scroll in t-o
does this
work oh I don't know how I managed to do
that yeah that's just totally
bonked
e e
okay that now
works this looks
reasonable we'll see how that goes I'm
going to go use the restroom and then
I'm going to make some nice debug tools
um I'm going to make some nice debug
tools because I think I found a series
of of small issues with the environment
that could have potentially be throwing
off the learning so I will figure those
out one second we'll be
back
e
e e
okay we are actually making for progress
today um all these little bug fixes on
the sweeps are what is ultimately needed
like essentially as soon as the sweeps
work it just goes whoop and auto learns
everything so we are making progress
right and the next bit of progress to
make
here
uh can I just pass something to Raab
like
make let me
think debug
grid
equals grid
uh
grid do we have empty up
here empty and wall is that
correct empty wall
Tower
okay
empty times grid not equal
wall as type 8
let me see if this
works huh oh I didn't pass it
duh okay so what I'm looking for here is
whether I'm leaking
references oh yeah this is perfect look
at this
thing look at
this we get to see exact where all the
non-null tiles
are
uhhuh oops I don't want to save
gifts
uh do 10K and no saving
let me see if I'm leaking any
refs especially interested in how the
neutrals when they die if I leak
references
then no when I spawn the neutrals it
seems good
this
one so I thought I'd done it wrong but
actually this looks pretty
good I thought that when you respawn the
neutral camps or like when wind uh waves
and minions spawned over each other or
something you'd like leak references but
it looks like no
pretty
good okay we'll leave this debug right
around for uh debugging
purposes next we'll fix the targeting
bugs I
suppose we'll fix targeting
bugs so
self.
skills player and
Target let me see how these skills
work move
near yeah so these are not made to be
working with
nulls which is kind of
awkward cuz I think that they need to
work with nulls
right because stuff like uh this move
buff for
instance doesn't need a
Target so whose responsibility should it
be to check
this probably the skills right
kind of
obnoxious I could put it into
um the underlying functions maybe but it
seems better to just
I can on line this
though yeah I don't have to make it this
like
garbage I can
do or
I'm more I'm happier with
that it's efficient and it doesn't screw
up the code
push
slow just put that
there how am I ordering these I should
do the target null check first probably
right
engage you okay so this is where you
don't need the Target
right do not need
Target do not need a Target
here first a we done you do
need Target
there Target there Target
there anything it's a selfcast doesn't
need to
check so this doesn't need a check right
here this is an AOE
heal oh I don't think I need to do
this this slow anymore do I
can change the way that this
works
P yeah we'll leave that a lot of
balancing will have to be
done we'll have to get like kills per
class and stuff like that I'm
sure it's not
hard need some decent metric as
all uh and we're already there that's
all of
them
so we
get we actually get to unindent
this and we
doent
basic and we do L if Target is not null
we basic attack
it that's
nice does this work so far pong
experiments seem to be
running and let's see if our new sweep
runs there's pong
MOA cool
we've got total Target Towers taken is
our
metric and uh this will continue to run
unless we messed it
up and basically by the time um we have
good results with
this we'll have the full action space
ready to run
okay so that doesn't
crash so it's a support AOE
hook there's a AOE hook heal stun
right so I should be able to test the
AOE
heal maybe not quite this done since I
don't have a Graphic for that
yet um but let's say just go get some
damage on
me come on come hit
me does not let me hit
W let's see why not
player AOE attack
yeah this doesn't work
um some of these skills just don't work
at the moment
there's this AOE
heal this one should
work this one should
work oh I know what I can do
oops C def bent
bent
success uh exclude
hostile
exclude
friendly then what we'll do
is
if damage less than
zero you're going to exclude hostiles
else and then we do success
equal to
this that should allow us to
AOE we should test our
heels only 1270 lines as well we're
doing good
all right let's pull one of these
guys go on hit
me doesn't let me
heal
interesting if the player AOE attack
player player 4
[Music]
-200 oh I'm
dumb I just forgot to do this
we'll do this three
lines that's
fine that'll fix this skill
hopefully and we can basically just
Implement like League or DOTA type stats
right
would be a great thing to have for the
game can see that you apply
heals you just press this button
whenever and it'll just go
off let see what if I go get all these
guys agur on me boom I
heal and then I drag him into the
tower the tower hit
neutrals Tower does not appear to hit
neutrals
nice can I heal
Towers no I cannot heal Towers which is
for the
best I should be able to heal teammates
though
right let's just go up to my creeps and
like try to heal them
maybe huh that triggers this to fail
that's
funny still some stuff to
fix how this
going a second run yet
in scon I have a m view in a class
unsign
Char observations in a knit when I do
self do
observations the shape of self do
observations
becomes one
okay but the shape of the observations
parameter is one on are you passing the
correct data type are you passing you
need it to be U and 8 if you're doing uh
unsign Char
array and you might need to type it uh
you also are going to want to type that
in the in it youate okay the other thing
you want to do
here you want to type it in the
init so I have CNP ND array sometimes
that causes bugs if you don't type it so
C import not import C import numpy is
CNP and then you can use CNP ND array in
the data type see if that does anything
okay you're already doing that
interesting if it's on your GitHub in
public I mean if you're doing if you're
planning to open source this I hope um
link it to me and I'll check it on
stream for you
that's a pretty good deal
oh this is an infinite Loop isn't
it yeah there's an infinite Loop I'm
dumb
for
e e
well these are now
fixed and I'll keep doing this until I
get a
link actually you know I got a better
idea if you're going to take a second to
commit that up I'm going to go make
myself a shake cuz I forgot to get lunch
I'll be back in a
few
for
e
e e
okay
be
back I don't know if you posted a link
but if you did I think it got censored
because I can't see
any you're good I'm just making sure you
know I don't see anything
is this still infinite
looped no there it
goes observe value -20 up time perfect
it just takes an extra 10% that's
exactly what we wanted it's a very nice
update
should make it nice and stable and easy
to learn we're going to come back to you
know five trillion Towers taken or
whatever it'll be
great look at
that get your Towers taken right
here perfect
cool
how long has this guy been live he's
been live a while hasn't
he ooh tensor
dict groups all your
tensors this is what we
want this exactly what we want
dis
GPU e
observation this very
nice let's give him a quote
there you go
very
good so we have this working now I guess
we just wanted to test the uh we got to
test out the abilities
right and like do that type of
thing so everything else kind of works
here we have a few minor things we can
fix but think we're mostly good
let's start with the hook pole
thing support
hook
push where's the okay so it's a 1.5
push and then the hook
carry Retreat
slow H I think we'll buff this to be
1.5 we see how this
does the thing is that this can like
drain your whole Mana bar really
quick so we'll have to do a little
balance there I don't know how much I
want to do like the individual skill
balance right now versus better
logging better logging is always useful
as well
W this a pretty nice sustain that you
have
there can we like do a stun on these
guys yeah look at that stunned can't
come after me
we need a stun Tim above them as
well very
good our runs crashed
nice so we have a smaller set of
metrics
and distance yeah we got reward
Tower and then total tow is taken right
there
which is
good nice linear
metric this is technically optimizing
for short
games so I don't know how well it's
going to distinguish among like between
good play and like really good play but
it should at least allow them to like
learn to
win the game or
whatever e
technically I should log like how many
times it uses each of these skills
right
yeah Fork is on GitHub account can't
send links yep got
it let me look
cool this is your thing this is
cool I didn't know this was your thing
this is
nice uh where is your fork
should Beed got
it EOS
puffer nice puffer
lib basically just a port of clean AR to
mlx
yeah I've always liked having um local
like good local GPU for development so
much that I've never used like since I
started RL I never have used Max I've
just always had like a razor laptop with
a local Nvidia GPU on it for Dev
I don't know I've heard that the
framework is like mlx is good like that
they just kind of like copied all like
the pie torch stuff and then avoided all
the like the ingrained mistakes that now
we know don't make like don't
work uh where is this
environments
wait your stuff should be here somewhere
right where's the commit oh on dev
okay very nice you put it like uh yeah
you just match the struct that's
nice
and oh cool you put it in Ocean which
is break
out okay we've got 185 lines
here oh cool yeah you've basically just
gone off of my template here and uh this
is yeah this will this type of thing
will work for you very
nicely only 64 lines here so
far still not remotely done as it'll be
a quick project
it'll be a quick
project noop fire left
right what's
fire the B the ball doesn't attach to
you does
it or is it attached like when you first
spawn
in I've seen this fire action a whole
bunch of times I actually know what it
is
um CNP andd array observations
rewards okay float
array rewards unsigned
Char array observations not sure copied
it from gymnasium yeah
fine CNP and array observations you say
this is the wrong
shape puffer
breakout yeah puffer
breakout um bricks
112 block required yep I don't have a
proper API for the advanced thing yet
cuz it's kind of new and it's like
there's some stuff that's hard to pin
down but there'll be one eventually
low high and
then there's no shape in
here where's the
shape you don't have a a shape specified
in your observation
space is it just does it go off of the
low and the
high I didn't know you could do that
here's your action
space observations
is
M and in
reset you make the
N observations Rewards
rewards
yeah init when I do self observations is
observations and then I print self.
observations is
weird there in a knit when I do
okay yeah I know what's going on here
I'm going to just I'm going to grab your
thing
you got to admit it's going to be really
funny when this is like a million steps
per second and it's way faster than the
Jack version and it's like actually
closer to the original
game there's like 300 lines of like
Python and cython
[Music]
okay break out
what
happened
oh e
mhm
what what's the uh the N name it can't
be breakout
right this is going to be a name
conflict potentially with um with Atari
right change the Atari Breakout
name all right well I'll leave that for
now
then I got rid of puff breakout what
oh
here delete all of original Atari
replace it with scyon M that are
faster be
funny
uh all right you got
116 dation space
shape so this is onedimensional right
now you don't have a 2d observation
space
here okay
same mob
space wait
what oh because they're multiple copies
that's fine
put this here
is this this is not intended to be a
vector en right the CM you've written to
have one copy of the environment yeah
okay I see what you did
so the thing that you got to do to fix
this this should be zero here
and this can just be unsigned Char like
this unless you plan on making it
vectorized and then you don't have
compute observations here
whatsoever and then this numpy
concatenate is not going to work out for
you
so what you're going to have to
do is you're going to do self.
observations 0 0 is going to be paddle
position to zero self dot it's going to
be
paddle position to
one and then what's the length of brick
states do we have
that we'll do like
int num brick stes or
something brick
states
or something like this
you have the uh wait do you have the the
profiler in here
anywhere no you don't have the profile
function that's okay
it's compiling everything give it a
sec drink the shake
what
compiler errors
what in the
heck
oh that's
fine oops
I did not like how fast that
compiled I guess you did it as an import
or something you didn't add it to set
up.
Pi
okay should have compile errors here
too many
indices oh because we don't need zero
anym
duh though technically this is if you
wanted to make this a
vumc you could make this be a vectorized
environment by
default probably be fast
unsigned
sh what's going wrong
now uh just some
casts we we have paddle position
oops do we have brick
states yeah these as well
seg
fault seg fault that's not
nice
uh see if this catches it
that doesn't catch
it that's obnoxious
right why does it have to be unside
Char it's a c data
type so what you have here this
observations is not an umpy array this
is a memory view which is the same
memory as the numpy array on the python
side but this is a native C data
type so you can't use numpy data types
without calling back to
python that's
why how big is ball position and stuff
does this make
sense oh well this
doesn't I just have that weird
indexing is probably just
wrong still Sig vaults
really
okay wait
how ball position has two
elements that shouldn't cause it to
crash
could be accessing something from let me
see paddle position
zero comes from the nump
[Music]
side it's actually funny so technically
breakout is like a Stanford first course
CS
assignment and then break out like a
thousand times faster ends up being
Cutting Edge
research battle position ball position
brick states
and we have paddle
position you're not specifying D types
here you always want to specify these I
think it's 64 by
default oh you do
doubles what do you want doubles for
those are slow
oh there we go we go some
floats we got enough Precision with
floats
how do you have this set up to
recompile how is this like recompiling
itself every time
see it in
here also why is it
rendering I pass train it shouldn't be
rendering
right that actually might be it if it's
trying to make multiple instances of
this
generally don't want this to
default yep there you
go that works now
and what did you grab you
grabbed not sure where you grabbed these
settings
from I think this is from like snake or
something um you're going to want way
more M than this though unless you do
this nativized
okay this doesn't have a
keyword can I just evil this
somehow is this supposed to work yet
not seeing anything
here I got your thing to uh to run
though all
right
uh let me think how I should give you
this because it's a fork can I fork your
fork is that a
thing yeah I can Fork a fork I guess
right and then commit this to
you e
on
[Music]
one Breakout
should have done this to begin with
there's your PR
nice and
easy yeah of course hey if you're doing
uh hopefully if you're going to PR this
to puffer eventually that helps everyone
out
right and of course if you contribute
something the size of a full game like
breakout of course you'll go on the uh
the contributors list on the front page
get like one mstep per second you know
efficient back
breakout very doable as
well probably about the same same scope
as
snake as far as the project goes
438 all right
um technically we have a bunch of
metrics that I'd like to add
go to sleep now good luck with the
stream thank
you best of luck with the environment
see you
around that was fun
so the easiest way to do this right
would be to make all the skills return a
bent and then I can easily do logging
from there right
yeah and then that would actually let me
balance the skills essentially because I
know how often they're using them
maybe something like
that all
right um
yeah that makes
sense it's not perfect though
because if I want to log like how much
damage they did with their skills and
other stuff or Mana
spent maybe it's better to just do it
inside the skill itself right
I mean I could do that
[Music]
I think I'll just do a binary for now
I'll be right
back and then uh I will Implement that
bit of logging let me make sure just
before I I do that that we actually have
something happening here
is this
working oh
yeah this
works funny how
like these don't look like they do as
well I guess this is the longer
run tow
taken that's cool
this trend of carbs like finding
something early and then doing this is
weird though all right I'll be right
back
e
e e
this is nice
progress I always wonder why
like it finds this
thing was this the blue the green and
this
one if I put this in
um
relative is it
time process time
okay so it thinks it has a big parito
front which I guess it does if it spent
this much longer on
this what if I just put this one in
uh process
time oh I see it actually dips below
here for a bit or I guess it's just
constant it can't dip below
yeah it's constant for a bit so I see
actually this run here is like better
for this
point carb should get
um I'm actually realizing now that like
carbs could be way
better if you were to
log if you were to like log all of the
checkpoints into carbs
right because then we wouldn't have this
problem if I just logged every
checkpoint right I'd have this whole
curve
that'd be
better though you'd have to get um
accurate estimates you'd have to get
accurate evals for each checkpoint which
would be a pain
I suppose yeah definitely some
opportunity there though definitely some
opportunity okay so we're going to make
these things be some be now
right what is going on over
there
so bant
false
true yeah we'll just
do little Montage of edits here and uh
then we'll add some logs
because this will be useful because as
soon as my thinking is as soon as they
start using skills the easiest way to
figure out which skills they think are
good is going to be which skills they're
using the most
often
um
yeah
[Music]
for
e e
oh wait did
I I've been doing this wrong haven't I
[__] only
slightly only slightly this is return
true this is return true this is return
false
for e
we go
and last
one
okay so now
we have to add two more
items to this
struct we have to
add Q uses and W uses and D
uses Q
uses w uses and E uses q w e uses
and this is in a whole training
run so I might even have to cap this
what's Max in that I can use
here just use two billion
somewhere around there isn't it
we log basic attacks
we got to set these old to
zero somewhere up here
right
yeah player.
qes W and E these all get set to zero
and
now we've got log
data which is very
nice because I can just go into
here
and and start adding a whole bunch of
stuff
it's a lot of metrics
though I think I got to put a slash I do
like
infos for
5 through 10
is my fan dying in here hold
on this desktop sounds weird
it's fine for
now not sure how the bearing is doing on
the fan though
let's just
do
two 1 3 5 7 that's perfect so the cheeky
indexing is going to be
zero and five like this
and like this this indexing here
assassin burst
tank
carry and
then you also this is Q uses not entity
Q uses because you need to cut
the oh
wait I literally can just do
wait what's the Syntax for
this a
one
okay six
what's the uh the Syntax for
like ranges like
this numpy skip
slice sytax
what the heck are these
suggestions i j k
oh you don't need the double
colon
six two is it like this yeah so it's
just 0 to
cool so 0 through
10 1 through
10 there you go
and support
W it just fills them all in From
Me 2 three four
five and if you group these
alphabetically it should make a lot of
sense as well right
yeah let's see what happens if I uh run
a
quick run a quick update on this
[Applause]
cannot assign void
debant we'll change the skill type to
beant e
very
nice that
compiles if I run train
there you go
oh that's cool the reason the Assassin e
is going off is because this is its
boost skill that doesn't need a
Target that's really
nice cool
um yeah we've got we've gotten this
whole thing into a very very nice
position
logged all
skills is there going to be some cool
graphs to have over training
how's her MOA doing at the
moment
oo hey our sweep is actually starting to
do
something 10 Towers
taken interesting how the reward
looks but hey who knows there's no not
necessarily a problem
there cool reward
curves can't tell where it's getting
these
um these samples from though
and some of these hyper parameters are
kind of
ridiculous we'll let this run and we'll
be able to tell based on this
right it's
cool what about our pong
sweep uh is it this
one
yeah okay
okay so again it's got a whole bunch of
parameters to sweep over so it takes it
quite a
while um
but we got one of them that does
something we'll see where it
goes I'm pretty happy with that progress
Wise It's only
five trying to think if there's anything
else I want to do today or
not on this at
least kind of in a spot where I just
need to like run
experiments and it's only going to take
me like an hour a day maybe two hours a
day worth of work in order to get these
experiments all queued up and running
nicely
I think what else I can
do the time
being the obvious answerers start yet
another Sim project but uh it's a bit
ridiculous right
there is also the
um the
perer release video that I wanted to do
I'm thinking what I might do for the
next few days
here I might do a few like just short
streams where I like go through some of
the results
maybe and I do you know updates on
experiments
um because it's going to take a few days
of doing
that
and then I spend a fair bit of the time
just off stream working on working on
some videos for the uh the releases
here I've kind of gotten through like
I'm at the point now where I've sort of
done everything I wanted to do in this
block of work like this like two-month
block of work or whatever we've gotten a
really nice hyper pram sweep into
integration needs a little bit of tuning
but that's reliant on feedback from
experiments um we've gotten high per
Sims working they just need a little bit
of tuning again based on the
experiments
um I have a little bit of cleanup to do
around these projects I'm sure and like
this this m in particular is not done
yet right this is going to need some
additional stuff
I'm trying to think how long
like various stuff will
take to
judge
e e
the funny thing is
like once this is all
done maybe like there are a few more
environments and I think I need the ELO
thing to work but
like what is there left to do for making
RL work
right if we have quality hyper pram
sweeps and we can just solve all these
environments or at least get consistent
improvement over
time the narl is kind of in a good spot
well I guess then what we would do is
we'd start scaling out the experiments
right we'd start like trying to get
either Hardware time or whatever to um
to run much bigger more aggressive
sweeps on stuff like let's say that this
pong one works
right we maybe we get like a like a
decent overall set of hyper prams for
Atari
or specific ones
depending but all that is very compute
bound to be I'm not 100% satisfied with
the hyper pram tuning thing I think it
could be
better but carbs is a huge upgrade
already as is
okay I mean there are still little bits
of Dev here and there that I can do
right like I can think about there's the
puffer Advanced
API that needs to be
solidified uh that would be a really
good thing to have done before this
simulation update drops
what about
ELO let me think about ELO for a
second does purely adversarial end here
is going to be really hard to uh it's
going to be really hard to measure
because without ELO right
I mean we could definitely see strategic
change over time through other
metrics but having ELO would be really
big thing also doesn't run a million
steps per second train quite
yet
uhoh oh never mind H I thought my fan
broke itself but the opposite it worked
whatever was wrong with it out
cool what are you drinking
uh like 80 grams of protein or
whatever like three cups whole milk one
cup chocolate milk and a half cup a half
cup scoop of protein
isolate
welcome I'm kind of just I'm kind of
just pensive at the moment because like
I've kind of gotten to the point where
I've achieved a lot of the stuff
I wanted to do early on with puffer like
way quicker than expected and now it's
just a matter of like how do I clean up
all the Loose Ends how do I make
everything nice and consistent and like
what entertaining stuff can I come up
with to do along the way both to keep
myself entertained and that would be fun
to
stream I mean I guess there still a few
unresolved things with carbs
maybe it's probably just going to be
pruning out some hyper parameters though
that don't need to be
tuned that would be my
guess I could look at various different
sweeps from different
environments yeah that's how you
determine this in the first place though
is you need to run sweeps on different
environments to figure that
out and snake and the particle
M's so very experiment heavy
I
mean this article which it didn't really
get much notice but what's
this yeah uh this article didn't really
get much notice but
um carbs does really really well
I could invest more heavily into the
hyper pram side to be fair which I think
I'll probably end up doing as um
with all these new M's I've
made that would be a good
idea have good quality sweeps over
everything yeah
definitely not going to wait for Wan B
to to do it before I you know I
do
um I guess I'm kind of in like update
like release mode then sort of because
like at this point it's like everything
is done and it just needs to be polished
up and shipped in 1.1 and then I take
some time to like figure out what I do
next
because I mean RL is in such is in such
a better place with just this right
and then
like let's say that I finish all of this
right let's say I get a nice update out
you know I get some more people using
puffer lib um people are happy with it
right we have like good sweeps we've got
all these nice Benchmark M then from
there pretty much the only thing left
for RL is to like do a little bit of
Science by changing some stuff in the
algorithms and seeing what happens
across all the different
M
um
and to build out you know more
environments for testing purposes as are
needed to fill in specific
gaps but that really puts RL in a way
way way better spot if you think about
it just having all this stuff being like
stable and easy to use
the problem is it's very difficult for
me to quantify stable and difficult uh
stable and easy to use so it's harder to
make progress
on because I know every time I get close
to a release like productivity kind of
just drops because it's like it's so
much harder to quantify progress and
it's so much easier to just say okay
yeah today I'm building a big
Sim so ideally I want to get myself into
a spot where I can spend as much time as
possible like building cool Sims and
having the of it do
itself but I think for the next like day
day and a half I think what I'm going to
do is I'm going to watch these
experiments I'm going to see how they're
going you know I'm going to make sure
that I have probably two sets of sweeps
at least maybe three sets of sweeps per
day so like clockwork right we're
getting like know new results in every 8
to 10 hours something like
that um depending on how the curves are
going and you know we make sure we have
the hardware
utilized and then I'm probably going to
just work
on uh work on like story boarding out
something for a new
video it's kind of like summarizing all
my thoughts on you know the big problems
in RL and where this puts everything
where this puts reinforcement
learning and know where we go from here
because I like
really this does put the field in a
totally different spot if you think
about it right like the ability to
have a variety of M's that go from very
simple to actually very complex that you
can just run tuning on
Fast um that changes
everything that is not something that
has existed before
I guess the only small wrinkle here is
like what are we going to do with this
DOTA EnV like how are we going to
measure progress past a certain
point cuz we're not going to be able to
measure like we're not going to just be
able to measure this based
on
um based on like towers destroyed right
we're going to need some sort of
Elo but that's really hard to
get oh you know what I could
do I've got an idea that would make it a
lot
easier so right
now I have like these evals that go uh
against
different uh
different I have like evals at the end
of the episodes at the end of training
that just get you a bunch more games so
you can get like a stable
metric what I could do for Dota or for
like adversarial games right is I could
put you against different policies
and I could just do the eval at the end
of the episode that's still a bunch of
work though to figure out a nice way of
doing
that the one obnoxious thing about this
DOTA EnV
yeah let's not just jump into this let's
not jump into this ELO thing immediately
let's just ignore that for a
bit
and okay yeah I just want to prep the
video
then so I could either start that today
or not to be honest
doesn't really matter the thing I want
to decide is whether I want to do any of
the video prep on stream or
not or if I want to like reserve it to
be more of a
surprise for how it goes
I don't really think I lose anything
by streaming some of the prep for it at
least for this one I don't think I lose
anything by streaming some of the prep
for it
right it's probably more fun for me as
well
I'm trying to think if there's anything
I don't want to reveal about the plans
for that though just for suspense's sake
[Music]
I think I can just I think I can just
show it
right I'm probably not going to put it
in the title of my stream
just so that anybody that's not hasn't
seen the stream the title will still be
like a cool surprise or whatever
but let me go pull this up on a side
window and see if I want see if I want
to show this I just like this is just
it's pretty new let me see
oops it's the other the other tab hold
on because the other thing is if I do it
on stream then
like the dev work on experiments is
going to be very much intermittent it's
going to just be like whenever I notice
that we have a new group of runs
done so I think it's going to make more
sense to just do this whole thing on
stream oops let me pull this hold on
okay uh
whoops yeah I'll show
it doesn't
matter so the talk I want to do is the
RL
Iceberg I kind of just want to go
through I mean everything wrong with
with RL and how puffer is fixing
it that's the
plan I don't think I'm losing anything
by revealing
that because the video the intended
video audience is so much broader than
the stream audience like the stream
audience is just like for the most part
a few people checking in to see like how
the nitty-gritty of all of this works
and like looking for some code tips or
looking for like some RL insights this
is like a like if this is going to be a
much more polished I'm thinking like a
20 minute video or something maybe a 30
minute video then this is going to be uh
a much broader audience piece of
content so that's fine so I haven't
looked at this in a while so I think
what's going to be fun to do for the
next hour or so I'm going to end a
little earlier tonight um is to just
like figure out if I can sort of
storyboard this a little bit look at
what I have here and look at if it makes
sense as it is
now
so here is like problem is people don't
know what RL
is give a
quick
primer um before title
problem and people Vaguely Familiar with
RL they think it is just for
games it's not getting the context of
why we use Games
Etc give a
couple real world examples
and
then
Problem by now need to
motivate why you should
care so
the story
is that this is promising Tech that
was was moving fast and then
stopped this is just
credentialing stuff
it's what it
is
and
title so how do I like this
Arc reinforcement learning is AI that
learns through interactive experiences
traditionally associated with
games but also has applications in the
real world as
well it's used to tune reactors for
nuclear fusion Lyft used it for driver
matchmaking there many more applications
as
well reinforcement learning is a very
promising field that saw insanely rapid
growth up until around
2019 and then stopped
my own little backstory I've been
working on reinforcement learning for
seven
years the author of this
thing and this is the RL of Iceberg
everything wrong with reinforcement
learning and how puffer is fixing
it I think that's a decent enough intro
Arc it could be better
this point is not obvious enough like
why this is
important why is it important to have ai
that learns through interactive
experiences evening what you working on
this is the video that I've been wanting
to do for puffer lib for a while um I
kind of hit a point where like all the
other stuff I'm working on all the dev
I'm working on is really dependent on
waiting for experiments and everything
is pretty close to done so I could close
stream and do all of this off stream for
the next several days or I could stream
some of like my thought process and
storyboarding out this presentation
it'll probably come out better as a
result and I don't think I'll lose any
of the audience either so I'm just
deving the presentation live on stream
while uh you know occasionally checking
on experiments that's what's going on
here
I didn't like this is a good problem to
have I didn't expect to get here so
quickly like I'm just at a point where
so much more stuff is solved so much
more quickly than I thought was
possible like look at
this just Auto deci it's just Auto
deciding how to train itself to play the
game
where do I put this so it's not awkward
for my
stream do I just move my
camera and do the camera like this maybe
this is fine
right I just go like
this like I make the windows
I don't even need this
window there we
go wish it were e easier to resize the
chat but no big deal I'll just move the
puffer up a little
bit they put some
spaces that looks
good
so there's so many things about
reinforcement learning that I think are
important that are difficult to
convey this is the point but this point
is not
obvious the importance of learning
through interactivity
what I want to convey is I want to
convey that this is a fundamentally
different approach to artificial
intelligence compared to language models
and all the stuff that's in the news
that it was making a ton of
progress and this is is like this very
promising
alternative that then everybody just
stopped
doing and that we can because there were
some problems with it and that we can
now fix those
problems and this can be a really
awesome area of AI That's going to come
back out of left
field that's what that's the story I
want to
tell in the first like 60 seconds of
this
and then the rest of it is I want to be
a
fast-paced I like this this thing
everything wrong with RL and how puffer
is fixing
it so what is it that's stopping RL from
being like why is why do why is it chat
GPT why isn't it rlg PT like rlpt
right like why where's the like the
rl's crazy growth
moment for
I think that has to be the first
slide whoops
why is it why is it like
this this is not the isn't
it yeah it's I don't know why it doesn't
have the corner that's
weird that's no big deal I can
just where's this
crop mask shape this done there we
go lots of text Data I don't know what
image do I want for
this I just make some
text
for e
okay
this a stupid
thing how do I show compression
do I want this to be one slide or two as
well
how animations work on Google Slides
there's no compress is
there I want to have it like compress
somehow e
Vice
press well apparently this is not what I
thought what do you call isn't it a
press vice grip no it's not a vice
grip um bench
vice yeah but I'm not going to be able
to get one of these that's going to be
able to like be the graphic I want right
oh I have a great idea
uh one ton weight SVG
yeah we'll do we'll compress I have a
fun idea
this type of a
thing dang I thought that would
work oh Anvil
weight maybe this
this has a shadow on
it this is what I hate about
presentations it takes forever to find
decent
graphics for anything
that's may be
decent ah stupid icon apps it's like you
can find freaking code online which
actually is very difficult to produce
and you can't find freaking decent
images to
use maybe
this I'll do
save
as not
supported try
this okay that works and then I just
have to
can you not just invert
this
seriously I have to photoshop this to
make it
work at least I know how to do that
I want to maybe just get this intro
slide done
today be
nice where'
the where' the stupid thing
go damn it
okay
okay oops
can I like scrunch all this text
somehow stuff is really easy to do in
Photoshop I don't really want to do the
slides and photos
shop or in like a design
tool I don't really have the background
for
that you could
learn I don't really want to make that
time investment right now
though um
okay maybe I'll just do the layout
because I don't want to like finalize
these anyways until I know that I like
the the layout
go
e
e e
they're
wrapping we can do like this
[Music]
happened to my text colors
options
for e
not exactly right to say LMS learn
through compression and reinforcement
learning learns through interaction
because everything's probably
compression for
I have like the rough idea of how I want
this to go but the specifics are so
important
right I should probably
hit this a bunch of times whoops let me
here let me copy this
stuff so I don't destroy my original
slide oh wait I have my original slide
up there we're
good so what I'm trying to figure out
how I want to do this
like I need some taglines for this I
guess language models learn by
compressing text
enforcement
e e
just do two slides
yeah that's what I'm
thinking right intros always take
forever because they're so important to
get
right yeah yeah well it gets kind of
crowded like this right this is not the
layout I would
use I kind of like assume that I can
figure out a decent layout for
Stuff the other thing I'm thinking right
is like you're optimizing for multiple
formats so like if I have this slide
screenshotted and like floating around
right what do I want the slide to
be if I just put two different slides
like hey this is what a language model
is and then hey this is what
reinforcement learning is that's not a
nice like there's no nice comparison to
go around right if I have a slide that
says you know this is like this is how
these two things are different
but I might be able to still do that
let me try it this
way duplicate this back up here
for
e
e e
I don't want to repeat learning
all of the modern all the modern
progress that you've seen in the last
couple of years comes through large
language and division models that learn
by compressing
data but there's this whole other form
of AI reinforcement learning that learns
through
interaction be it with a simulator or
through the real
world now the third slide is the key
here so let's duplicate
e
do this the other way
this is telling and not showing
but let's
see
for e
I don't need two bars I just need
one for
that's not
fair I use the popper for this
this is a good point to make
right for
what the hell is this dumb bait article
oh Laura okay never mind that's kind of
legit e
I don't want to do like you can only do
one of these at home it's more than
that
e e
I have a good point to
make just put this down here for
now
for
e
e e
oh I know we can do this in one
slide e
h
let me make sure I have a copy of
this
e
e e
well fix the a layout for this but I
like this concept
seconded yeah I don't know what what I
want to do with this I want to make this
point but this is a clean Arc right this
is a simpler you always make the simpler
you always make the strongest simplest
point you can make first right
so here's this thing you know about
language models learn to compress
text here's this thing you maybe don't
know about reinforcement learning which
is trained through interaction with
simulators or the real world
reinforcement learning was super human
before Transformers even existed and
it's not just for games it's been used
in Fusion it's been used in uh online
applications like driver matching it's
been used all over the
place this actually can go down here way
down
here I'm going to put this one down here
with like the uh I put like slides I
might use but like I might not down
there and
then oh I know how I get rid of this
like this weird Lial
space so this goes up here I'll have to
like do the exact formatting right
I like this way more the slides aren't
good but
here's this thing you know
about here's this totally other way of
doing AI that was superhuman before
Transformers existed it's not just for
games has a ton of real world
applications so why haven't you heard of
it well reinforcement learning was
making huge waves until 2019 and then it
just
stopped I'm Joseph Suarez I've been
working in reinforcement learning for
over 7 years I recently defended my
thesis at MIT and this is the RL Iceberg
everything wrong with reinforcement
learning and how puffer is fixing
it I like
that I think that's a way better
narrative
is that the strongest narrative I
have here's this thing you've heard
about here's the AI you've heard about
it learns one
way here's the AI
you know
about it learns one
way here's AI you
haven't here's AI that
learns whole different
way it was for human
before
M's and has real World applications so
why haven't you heard of
it well it was Making
Waves a few years ago and then it just
stopped
uh who the [__] am on
and hard title
drop cool
where's like this plot
thing okay this this story
arc I want to do something real quick
cuz I think it'll be
funny you seriously
not okay so this story
arc I hate this story arc diagram that's
like taught in schools I think the story
should
go it should like start off up and then
it should just keep going
up this is the correct way to do a story
this is
lame and then it just stops all of a
sudden that's what I think that's that's
what I
like so let me think how I'm going to do
that ah
so these Iceberg Style videos right this
is like a meme format online it's like B
made like you know the iceberg goes
really
deep I think that the way that I make
this thing just keep going up and up is
in a way that people can understand I
start off with stuff that RL phds don't
understand or at least don't like
appreciate about reinforcement learning
so I start off with stuff that already
phds in the space don't
know and then from there I go on to
things that are like breaking the entire
field that nobody knows
about I think that's how I do this
right and I just like sprinkle in little
bits of background that you know maybe
people are familiar with as are needed
as is needed along the
way that sounds
fun okay so what do I have at the
[Music]
moment this is a good point I think that
actual phds and RL don't appreciate this
this is yep
what points am I going to make if I just
want to storyboard this thing out
right e
okay this is a very true statement
that's going to piss off a lot of
academics Just My
Style e
oh e
what can I do underneath each of these
well that's not a fair
comparison e
welcome welcome wolf we are
doing I'm making slides for the uh the
new talk that I'm going to
do on uh puffer I'm kind of just
storyboarding stuff out live and in the
background how are experiments going
look at
that it's getting
better it is getting
better right here we see the number of
towers that have been taken over the
course of a uh you know in one
environment over the course of a
training run and we see that now we have
one that's taken 14
Towers so far and carbs is going to keep
searching going to keep searching for
us it is optimizing literally everything
it's optimizing the weights of all the
rewards it's optimizing all the hyper
parameters everything's
Auto I've got this going and I've also
at the same time I've got one going on
breakout because I kind of think it
would be funny whoops where is
it I kind of think it would be funny to
solve breakout in like five minutes
though it seems like it's harder to find
hyper parameters that'll do that but I
think it'd be real funny to solve
breakout in five
minutes well not breakout pong but
whatever same
thing I really like how carbs here is
this is something that's not uh maybe
not super appreciated but let me find
it getting late here and the EU going to
go to bed see around you've got it
defining the rewards automatically well
it's defining the weights of the rewards
I'll show
you I'll show
you
carbs so you've got there's a reward for
dying there's a reward for going close
to the getting to the enemy ancient
there's a reward for taking Towers
there's a reward for gaining XP so I
believe that I have four different
reward weights and it is going to
optimize the weights of these
rewards at the same times it's
optimizing all these other hyper
parameters so it's got 17 different
hyper parameters here to
optimize it's going to just keep getting
better and better and the really sweet
thing about carbs
is that it will actually run longer and
longer experiments over time as it
becomes more
confident so I started out it was
running like 100 million step
experiments right but I I very
intentionally I gave it a metric that
you can increase right over time and
it's just a matter of how quickly
because this is the total number of
towers taken across the whole training
run so like trivia
if you run it longer you'll do better
here but what I'm
hoping is that carbs is going to over
time it's not just going to do longer
and longer runs it's going to find you
know steeper and steeper runs over that
time it pretty cool it's pretty cool
and it actually uses the time taken for
each experiment in seconds to judge how
good the running is the run is as well
so like it will keep looking for faster
ways to get this good and like if it can
get this this result but it can do it
faster in wall clock time then it'll
consider that'll be better that to be
better so it's pretty cool
we also added the skill system back in
not for these training runs but we have
a branch that has the whole skill
systems added back in we've got logging
for how often they use all their
different skills it's pretty
cool you know what's going to be what
else is going to be real cool is
this this presentation is going to be
really cool
where is it for it's just going to be
for a video long form video for the
channel it'll be the second big video on
it it's the
hope for
we had some cool stuff today I had
somebody uh somebody is like working off
of the puffer Branch to make like a
super fast version of breakout so I
helped him debug that live and I gave
him a PR to fix some stuff on stream
that's a cool thing now if you have like
puffer related contribution
projects I'm more than happy to do you
know to help out with stuff and to do
PRS live on stream that's fun plan for
the next few days is to kind of be back
and forth between you know working on
this talk and then working on the MOBA
or on you know other sweeps other things
as we get experiment results back it
takes like some hours for each set of
results to come back so it's going to be
a little bit of mixed work
going to do some breakout stuff what was
busy with moving yeah let me figure out
who it was I think it was uh do you know
Noah Noah far who's in the chat here
often he has a public thing on this that
he just started
yeah my PR here no wait where is
it uh yeah here
merged so he's got an environment in
Ocean breakout here pretty nice just
started on it see him in the Discord
yeah this is supposed to be like a cool
Community thing so I'm than happy to
help out if people are like building
ends Ms as long as they're you know
going to be open
sourced
e
e e
could make an asteroids environment yeah
any of the classic Atari environments
you want to do go
ahead I would go look up training curves
on the actual environment first though
like I'd pick one that isn't like
insanely obnoxious to
learn just because it's going to be
annoying to get the initial results on
it I mean you can do one that's kind of
obnoxious to learn as long as it's
fast you kind of got to do like State
based observations
though I would say that any single like
any single Atari environment once you
get comfortable with this ithon is going
to be like a 1 to 3 Day project kind of
a
deal any single Atari should be like a
one to three day
project I also am saying that anybody
that contributes like a full m like that
uh you go on the the front page like the
homepage with the you know the
contributor
list that's like a substantial enough
thing to be listed for
sure sadly there no there are no
bounties for stuff yet but maybe soon
got to get Revenue
first no bounties until there's Revenue
what front
page we got a contributor list here
it's right under
install e
what other miscellaneous stuff is there
that I want to cover there's so much
stuff
for
e e
that's a good
overview I'm not actually going to have
this slide but this is like a good
outline of what I'd like to
make e
five
minutes this is a longer
thing I mean I don't have a Target
length in mind for this so I can kind of
just do whatever
okay
it's like s
um I think we're in a pretty good spot
for
today been pretty tired lately I think
I'm going to take off early I'm last
thing I'll do here I'm just going to go
through these results one last
time so
interesting that it decided to do a run
this long that's very weird sounds good
looks like good progress yeah there's
good progress overall oh yeah also
everything is in the dev Branch now that
was a nice thing
so anything you want to use is actually
easy to get to now and like it's in a
branch where I can PR stuff really nice
and
easily
um okay so this is
working but I don't know why it's it's
stabilized here this is
weird Towers taken should continue to go
up like this should be like roughly
linear it should not be stagnated like
that it looks like it actually crashed
potentially here or they've learned to
like or they're somehow like they're not
able to finish the
game so we'll have to look at what
happened
there um um likely there's going to be a
combination of environment bugs and like
small experimental tweaks that I'm going
to have to make over the next couple of
weeks to get this thing to work properly
but the cool thing is that we have
mostly automated infrastructure for
doing stuff now so that makes everything
way easier and also once we start to see
like some of the good defaults uh I'm
going to start adding I'm going to start
making like the default parameters
closer to what I think the optimal ones
are so the these sweeps run faster
because it'll be seated close to the
optimum and 45 let's see this
pong very this one is very weird to
me this one's very very weird to
me that like we have a couple of these
results but nothing amazing
uh well I think it'll
actually it's starting to get it now
isn't
it yeah it's totally it's starting to
get it like we've got these ones now it
just needs to know to run these for
longer and we'll be set I
think and like what are the the time
steps on these
I forget carbs is kind of like a weird
and unintuitive algorithm but if you
just let it run it usually does very
well yeah look at this this is only like
4 million steps here so this is totally
fine yeah this will this will 100% solve
it we just got to let it figure it
out last check for the day on puffer
lib
705 705 very
nice I'll probably post this sweep in
the morning or
whatever oh yeah this was the other MOBA
sweep right what was
this this was the pong
sweep yeah this one was very weird that
it like starts curving up like this but
it still has so many bad
runs it's like it's trying to find the
fastest way to get this or something
it's
[Music]
bizarre I'm not sure about that anyways
I'm going to go relax a bit get some
sleep and be back at this tomorrow so
good night